 Advertisement 

 Cruise ship that left woman to die on island boarded by investigators 

 2 hours ago 

 Coral Expeditions 

 The Coral Adventurer anchored near Cairns more than a week after leaving behind a passenger on a remote Australian island (File photo) 

 Investigators have boarded an Australian cruise ship more than 10 days after the death of an elderly female passenger who was left behind on a remote island. 

 Suzanne Rees, 80, had been hiking on Lizard Island with fellow passengers from the Coral Adventurer, but broke off from the group for a rest. The ship left without her, only returning several hours later when the crew realised Ms Rees was missing. 

 Officials from the Australian Maritime Safety Authority (Amsa) boarded the vessel on Wednesday morning local time. 

 Amsa, which is probing the incident alongside Queensland Police and the state coroner, told the BBC it could not comment on the investigation. 

 Advertisement 

 Cruise operator 'failed' woman who was left on island and died, family says 

 Investigation after woman left behind by cruise ship dies on island 

 The 60-day cruise around Australia, which had cost guests tens of thousands of dollars,  was cancelled due to Ms Rees' death  as well as mechanical issues. 

 The Coral Adventurer had been expected to dock at Cairns – where its operator Coral Expeditions is based. 

 But a lack of available berths meant it instead dropped anchor a few kilometres north early on Tuesday evening, off the coast of Yorkey's Knob, where it remained on Wednesday morning. 

 The BBC understands only a skeleton crew were on board. 

 Ship tracking data showed one of the vessel's smaller boats, known as a tender, moving between the ship and the shore on Tuesday night. 

 All passengers disembarked at Horn Island in the far north of Queensland over the weekend and were transferred to the mainland on a charter plane. 

 Advertisement 

 The Coral Adventurer caters for up to 120 guests with 46 crew, according to the company's website. It was purpose-built to access remote areas of Australia's coast. 

 Tracking data shows the vessel initially left Cairns at around 07:30 local time on 24 October - after a delay of around a week because of mechanical issues. 

 The next day it reached Lizard Island - also known as Jiigurru or Dyiigurra - in the northern area of the Great Barrier Reef for the first stop on the journey. 

 Advertisement 

 Passengers aboard were transported by tenders to the secluded island – home to a luxury resort and a research station - for a day trip with the option of hiking or snorkelling. 

 Suzanne Rees' daughter, Katherine Rees, said last week that her family was "shocked and saddened that the Coral Adventurer left Lizard Island after an organised excursion without my mum". 

 She described her mother, who was from Sydney, as an "active 80-year-old" who was a member of a bushwalking group. 

 "From the little we have been told, it seems that there was a failure of care and common sense." 

 Ms Rees added that she hoped the coroner's inquiry would be able to pinpoint what "the company should have done that might have saved mum's life". 

 "We understand from the police that it was a very hot day, and mum fell ill on the hill climb," she said. 

 "She was asked to head down, unescorted. Then the ship left, apparently without doing a passenger count. 

 "At some stage in that sequence, or shortly after, mum died, alone." 

 A search and rescue effort late on Saturday 25 October – the day she went missing – did not find any sign of Ms Rees. Her body was discovered the following day. 

 Last week Mark Fifield, the chief executive of the cruise operator Coral Expeditions, confirmed the firm was "working closely with Queensland Police and other authorities to support their investigation". 

 Mr Fifield said that the company was "deeply sorry that this has occurred" and had offered its full support to the Rees family. 

 Related 

 Cruise cancelled following death of woman left behind on island 

 Cruise operator 'failed' woman who was left on island and died, family says 

 ADVERTISEMENT 

 According to dental experts, even the most diligent brushers might be making a few mistakes. 

 Andrew: Why Sarah Ferguson, Beatrice and Eugenie can't escape the taint of family scandal  The scandal engulfing Andrew is of his own making but has had a profound impact on his immediate family. 

 Crew of Coral Adventurer only realised the 80-year-old Australian was missing hours after they left Lizard Island on the Great Barrier Reef.  Undo 

 The images of the royal couple and their children had appeared in a French magazine in April. 

 The US president says the new marble and gold fixtures are "very appropriate for the time of Abraham Lincoln". 

 The notes were thrown overboard just a few days into a voyage to join the battlefields of France more than a century ago. 

 More from the BBC 

 2 hrs ago 

 Who are the players in Australia's Ashes squad? 

 BBC Sport profiles the players in Australia's squad for the opening Ashes Test against England. 

 2 hrs ago 

 Name every player with five-wicket haul in men's Ashes Tests since 2005 

 The Ashes returns on 21 November and to get you in the mood we thought we'd Test your knowledge with a quiz. 

 Only one player under 30 in Australia Ashes squad 

 Australia chief selector George Bailey says the squad for the first Ashes Test against England deserves "respect". 

 4 hrs ago 

 Australia announces 15-member squad for first Ashes Test in Perth 

 Steve Smith will captain with three players to make their international debut at the first Test in Perth this month. 

 9 hrs ago 

 Reddit added to Australia's social media ban on under-16s 

 The ban takes effect on 10 December and also includes Facebook, X, TikTok, YouTube and Instagram. 

